README.md, before:

<img src="public/TeamHigher.jpg" alt="Higher Relay" align="right" width="180" />

# Higher: Nostr Relay for Hierarchical Determinstic (HD) Keys

This relay software specializes in providing a Nostr relay with access to keys derived from a master key. Any keys which are not derived from the master key will be rejected for write events. Optional: Allow nostr.json from a domain to allow additional keys to have read/write access to the relay. This Relay is based on the khatru library framework.

## Implementation of HD Keys

This relay implements Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) key authorization using BIP-32/BIP-44-style derivation. It validates incoming keys for event write/read and Blossom uploads against a configured HD master.

**Key implementation files**
- `keyderivation/hdkey.go`
- `main.go` (authorization logic in `RejectEvent`, `RejectFilter`, and Blossom `RejectUpload`)

**Master key configuration**
- Exactly one of the following must be set in `.env` (validated in `LoadConfig()`):
  - `RELAY_MNEMONIC` — BIP-39 mnemonic
  - `RELAY_SEED_HEX` — hex-encoded 32-byte seed
- The relay initializes the HD master in `initDeriver()` and keeps the deriver in a global `deriver` for access checks.

**Derivation scheme**
- Nostr BIP44 coin type `1237`, path: `m/44'/1237'/0'/0/index`
  - `44'` — BIP44 purpose
  - `1237'` — Nostr coin type
  - `0'` — account 0
  - `0` — external chain
  - `index` — address index (non-hardened), starting at 0

**Implemented in `keyderivation/hdkey.go`**
- `NewNostrKeyDeriver(...)` — builds a deriver from mnemonic or seed
- `DeriveKeyBIP32(index)` — derives a key pair at the path above
- `GetMasterKeyPair()` — returns the root (master) key

### See more at 
- [HD Keys Implementation](./HD_KEYS.md)
- [Access Control Flow](./ACCESS_CONTROL.md)


## Features

Settings can be customized in .env:

- Specify Relay Master as Mnemonic or seed hex. Also can specify max derivation index.
- Optional: Restrict Read to only derived keys
- Optional: Team domain - to allow pubkeys in nostr.json
- Blossom
   - added read and write timeouts
   - prevent slow header attacks, max header size
   - max size upload
   - added /mirror endpoint to allow for syncing content with other relays
   - added /list endpoint to allow for listing content for a specific user
- Relay Kinds - add support to limit kinds allowed, kinds specified in .env file
- Frontend
   - added front page with relay and blossom information


## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setting Environment Variables](#setting-environment-variables)
- [Compiling the Application](#compiling-the-application)
- [Running the Application as a Service](#running-the-application-as-a-service)

## Prerequisites

- A Linux-based operating system
- Go installed on your system
- A Webserver (like nginx) if blossom is enabled

## Setting Environment Variables

1.  Create a `.env` file in the root directory of your project.

2.  Add your environment variables to the `.env` file. For example:

    ```env

    RELAY_NAME="Higher"
    RELAY_PUBKEY="72e2d6ea......."
    RELAY_DESCRIPTION="Nostr Relay for Hierarchical determinstic keys"

    DB_ENGINE="lmdb" # lmdb, badger, postgres
    DB_PATH="db/" # only needed for lmdb, badger

   ### only needed for postgres
    POSTGRES_USER=higher
    POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
    POSTGRES_DB=relay
    POSTGRES_HOST=localhost
    POSTGRES_PORT=5437

    TEAM_DOMAIN="higher.bitkarrot.co"
    BLOSSOM_ENABLED="true"
    BLOSSOM_PATH="blossom/"
    BLOSSOM_URL="http://localhost:3334"

    ```

## Compiling the Application

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/bitkarrot/higher.git
   cd higher
   ```

2. Build the application:

   ```bash
   go build -o higher-relay
   ```

## Running the Application as a Service

1. Create a systemd service file:

   ```bash
   sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/higher-relay.service
   ```

2. Add the following content to the service file: (update paths and usernames as needed)

   ```ini
   [Unit]
   Description=Higher Relay
   After=network.target

   [Service]
   ExecStart=/path/to/yourappname
   WorkingDirectory=/path/to/higher-relay
   EnvironmentFile=/path/to/higher-relay/.env
   Restart=always
   User=ubuntu

   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   ```

3. Reload the systemd daemon:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl daemon-reload
   ```

4. Enable and start the service:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl enable higher-relay
   sudo systemctl start higher-relay
   ```

5. Check the status of the service:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status higher-relay
   ```

## Conclusion

Your relay will be running at localhost:3334. Feel free to serve it with nginx or any other reverse proxy.

Commit message:

examples/keyderivation: add --message flag; docs: document flag and link example from top-level README

README.md, after:

<img src="public/TeamHigher.jpg" alt="Higher Relay" align="right" width="180" />

# Higher: Nostr Relay for Hierarchical Determinstic (HD) Keys

This relay software specializes in providing a Nostr relay with access to keys derived from a master key. Any keys which are not derived from the master key will be rejected for write events. Optional: Allow nostr.json from a domain to allow additional keys to have read/write access to the relay. This Relay is based on the khatru library framework.

## Implementation of HD Keys

This relay implements Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) key authorization using BIP-32/BIP-44-style derivation. It validates incoming keys for event write/read and Blossom uploads against a configured HD master.

**Key implementation files**
- `keyderivation/hdkey.go`
- `main.go` (authorization logic in `RejectEvent`, `RejectFilter`, and Blossom `RejectUpload`)

**Master key configuration**
- Exactly one of the following must be set in `.env` (validated in `LoadConfig()`):
  - `RELAY_MNEMONIC` — BIP-39 mnemonic
  - `RELAY_SEED_HEX` — hex-encoded 32-byte seed
- The relay initializes the HD master in `initDeriver()` and keeps the deriver in a global `deriver` for access checks.

**Derivation scheme**
- Nostr BIP44 coin type `1237`, path: `m/44'/1237'/0'/0/index`
  - `44'` — BIP44 purpose
  - `1237'` — Nostr coin type
  - `0'` — account 0
  - `0` — external chain
  - `index` — address index (non-hardened), starting at 0

**Implemented in `keyderivation/hdkey.go`**
- `NewNostrKeyDeriver(...)` — builds a deriver from mnemonic or seed
- `DeriveKeyBIP32(index)` — derives a key pair at the path above
- `GetMasterKeyPair()` — returns the root (master) key

### See more at 
- [HD Keys Implementation](./HD_KEYS.md)
- [Access Control Flow](./ACCESS_CONTROL.md)

## Examples

- Key Derivation (Nostr HD Keys): see `examples/keyderivation/` — [README](./examples/keyderivation/README.md)

## Features

Settings can be customized in [`.env`](./.env):

- Specify Relay Master as Mnemonic or seed hex. Also can specify max derivation index.
- Optional: Restrict Read to only derived keys
- Optional: Team domain - to allow pubkeys in nostr.json
- Blossom
   - added read and write timeouts
   - prevent slow header attacks, max header size
   - max size upload
   - added /mirror endpoint to allow for syncing content with other relays
   - added /list endpoint to allow for listing content for a specific user
- Relay Kinds - add support to limit kinds allowed, kinds specified in .env file
- Frontend
   - added front page with relay and blossom information


## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setting Environment Variables](#setting-environment-variables)
- [Compiling the Application](#compiling-the-application)
- [Running the Application as a Service](#running-the-application-as-a-service)

## Prerequisites

- A Linux-based operating system
- Go installed on your system
- A Webserver (like nginx) if blossom is enabled

## Setting Environment Variables

1.  Create a `.env` file in the root directory of your project.

2.  Add your environment variables to the `.env` file. For example:

    ```env

    RELAY_NAME="Higher"
    RELAY_PUBKEY="72e2d6ea......."
    RELAY_DESCRIPTION="Nostr Relay for Hierarchical determinstic keys"

    DB_ENGINE="lmdb" # lmdb, badger, postgres
    DB_PATH="db/" # only needed for lmdb, badger

   ### only needed for postgres
    POSTGRES_USER=higher
    POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
    POSTGRES_DB=relay
    POSTGRES_HOST=localhost
    POSTGRES_PORT=5437

    TEAM_DOMAIN="higher.bitkarrot.co"
    BLOSSOM_ENABLED="true"
    BLOSSOM_PATH="blossom/"
    BLOSSOM_URL="http://localhost:3334"

    ```

## Compiling the Application

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/bitkarrot/higher.git
   cd higher
   ```

2. Build the application:

   ```bash
   go build -o higher-relay
   ```

## Running the Application as a Service

1. Create a systemd service file:

   ```bash
   sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/higher-relay.service
   ```

2. Add the following content to the service file: (update paths and usernames as needed)

   ```ini
   [Unit]
   Description=Higher Relay
   After=network.target

   [Service]
   ExecStart=/path/to/yourappname
   WorkingDirectory=/path/to/higher-relay
   EnvironmentFile=/path/to/higher-relay/.env
   Restart=always
   User=ubuntu

   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   ```

3. Reload the systemd daemon:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl daemon-reload
   ```

4. Enable and start the service:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl enable higher-relay
   sudo systemctl start higher-relay
   ```

5. Check the status of the service:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status higher-relay
   ```

## Conclusion

Your relay will be running at localhost:3334. Feel free to serve it with nginx or any other reverse proxy.
